### WHY YOU SHOULD MARRY BEFORE 40
A while ago while visiting a friend who’s married, her wife send her newly arrived maid to her cousin house which was few blocks away and opposite main gate from where they were staying.  From the conversion on the phone, I could hear she was instructing the receiver on the side of the items the maid was to pick. Among the items to be pick was waruu (Kikuyu name for potatoes) and the maize flour he brought from the village. The current empty shelves of Unga (Kiswahili word for flour) have pushed people to a far reaching implication on family living in urban and towns areas. Some have resorted to “importing” Unga from County while some family had to survive on rice. A few minutes later the maid arrives with items she was sent to collect. My friend's wife asks the girl who else was in the house. This smart way for ladies to spy on their relative to know if there are some women in the room. The maid answered innocently “Baba wa Tom, in fact, he’s the one who gave me the stuff”. My friend wife looked surprised and called whoever she has sent to confirm Mzee (Old man) present immediately. "Hey Tom, Kwani Mzee amerudi so soon?" I don't hear the reply on another side, but she responds to the caller that the maid told her he was around to which she replies laughing loudly “Kwani ilikuwa ni wewe? (So it was you) I thought baba (Kiswahili word for father) is back in the city!” she hanged the phone promising to call back later. My friend wife confirms it was not the old man from the village who has visited but it was her cousin whom her maid misunderstood as my friend's wife cousin father. Tom father is one of those old colonial men whom they called all relatives, clan’s men, villages and everyone he knows in the city to pronounce his coming in advance as he doesn’t like inconveniences whenever he’s coming for quarterly eye checked up in Kikuyu hospital. Whenever he's around, he will eat at my friend house and only sleep at Toms place. I asked how old her cousin is, such that her maid mistaken him as his father. I learn he was 40 years old and still unmarried despite having a stable job, a car and three bedrooms rental house at their posh area. He’s have been worrying his parents and all relatives as large. 
This development initiates our topic for the rest of time I was at my friend house. Later I decided to weight on pro and cons of marrying before and after 40, but I find there is the reason for one to postponed marrying. It's best if both runs parallel with other activities. Below is five reason why you should marry before 40.

### 1.	Biological Clock.
Though not scientific proven children born in advance age are not pro-active compare to their counterpart born by parents who are in the twenties. They tend to be more active and very healthy. Menopause in most of the ladies starts at the forties so waiting to reach forty can also increase one's’ complication when giving birth. 

### 2.	Economic Status.
Not unless you are a business mogul like Jack Ma or Chris Kirubi being in formal employment does not guarantee you financially stable after employment to gather for all your expenses in later life. The current retirement age stands at 55-60 which means if you retired at 55 your first born will be 15 years old by then and given African setup whereby a family can have even up to 6 children your last born may be some few months old when you retire! Thus it will have financial implication on the education of the children. 

### 3.	Crying Babies At Night
If you have been parents, you can attest to me that toddlers can be annoying a time especially when they cry at night. As age progress, your body tends to require silent, and some cases total calm. Having infant and toddlers can be annoying, and you will find some of the men hiding this by spending more time in the bar, entertainment joints or even avoid home in total by attending business, seminars and workshops to avoid crying babies.

### 4.	Life Partner.
Getting partner at an advanced age is tricky and may not be easy as one tries to beat biological clock. People with advanced age without family or partner raises a lot of suspicious in their quest to settle. Individuals in this age bracket can agree with me it’s not easy getting long term partner. As a lady, you will only find men who hit and run leaving you more injured than you were before. One question why one can stay for long, be stable and no partner on sight. This number one turns off for most men and women. The only way for one to get hook is to get another partner who’s also late in getting married and join hand together.
### 5.	Social Status
Where I came from married men and women are accorded much respect and always listen to whenever they spoke in community forums, unlike their counterpart. In some cases, a leadership position considered as a role for married people. One question is how you can manage larger responsibility if you don’t have exposure to a family which is a small unit which makes up bigger communities.

